docs(troubleshoot): document GitHub Package Registry auth for @midnight-ntwrk/* (closes #787) (#1073)
midnightntwrk/midnight-docs: docs/troubleshoot/fix-package-repository-access-failures.mdx

---
title: Fix package repository access failures

> description: Resolve 403 Forbidden errors when installing Midnight npm packages with four proven solutions.

Reviewer: The style guide targets 120-160 characters for descriptions. At 92 characters this falls short. Rewording also avoids a hardcoded count that goes stale whenever a solution is added or removed.

```suggestion
description: Resolve 403 Forbidden and authentication errors when installing @midnight-ntwrk npm packages. Covers registry, network, configuration, and token fixes.
```

</StepsProvider>

## Solution 4: Authenticate to GitHub Package Registry

> If the previous solutions do not resolve the issue, the cause may be GitHub Package Registry authentication rather than an npm registry misconfiguration. Midnight publishes `@midnight-ntwrk/*` packages to `https://npm.pkg.github.com/`, which requires authentication even for public packages.

Reviewer: Solutions 1-3 use npm. This solution switches to Yarn Berry configuration without signaling the change. One additional sentence helps readers know when this section applies.

```suggestion
If the previous solutions do not resolve the issue, the cause may be GitHub Package Registry authentication rather than an npm registry misconfiguration. Midnight publishes `@midnight-ntwrk/*` packages to `https://npm.pkg.github.com/`, which requires authentication even for public packages. This solution applies to Yarn Berry (v2+) projects that use a `.yarnrc.yml` file.
```

Without a configured token, every install attempt fails with:

```text
@midnight-ntwrk/ledger@npm:4.0.0::__archiveUrl=...: Invalid authentication (as an unknown user)
```

To resolve this, configure `npmAuthToken` in your `.yarnrc.yml`. You also need a GitHub personal access token with the `read:packages` scope, provided through the `GITHUB_TOKEN` environment variable.

<StepsProvider>

<Step>

### Generate a GitHub personal access token

> Create a fine-grained personal access token (PAT) at `https://github.com/settings/personal-access-tokens/new` with the `read:packages` scope. A classic PAT with the same scope also works.

Reviewer: `read:packages` is a classic-token scope. The URL here (`personal-access-tokens/new`) opens the fine-grained token page, where the equivalent permission is called **Packages: Read**. Leading with classic tokens and noting the fine-grained alternative avoids confusion.

```suggestion
Create a classic personal access token at `https://github.com/settings/tokens/new` with the `read:packages` scope. A fine-grained token with the **Packages: Read** permission also works.
```

:::info[Organization access]
For organization-owned packages, your token must also have access to the `midnightntwrk` organization.
:::

</Step>

<Step>

### Update `.yarnrc.yml`

Add the `npmAuthToken` field under the `midnight-ntwrk` scope, pointing at the `GITHUB_TOKEN` environment variable:

```yaml
npmScopes:
  midnight-ntwrk:
    npmAlwaysAuth: true

>     npmPublishRegistry: "https://npm.pkg.github.com/"
>     npmRegistryServer: "https://npm.pkg.github.com/"

Reviewer: `npmPublishRegistry` is only relevant when publishing packages to the registry. Since this page is about resolving install failures, removing it keeps the YAML focused on the reader's problem.

```suggestion
    npmAlwaysAuth: true
    npmRegistryServer: "https://npm.pkg.github.com/"
```

    npmAuthToken: "${GITHUB_TOKEN}"
```

:::tip[Token security]
Yarn interpolates `${GITHUB_TOKEN}` from the environment at install time, so the token never lives in `.yarnrc.yml`.
:::

</Step>

<Step>

> ### Export the token and reinstall

Reviewer: In Solutions 1-3, the step before "Test installation" only configures things, and "Test installation" runs `install` on its own. Here, step 3 bundles export and install in one step. Renaming the heading is the first part of the split. Consider also extracting `yarn install` into a separate Step 4 ("Test installation") with the **Verification** line, matching the pattern in Solutions 1-3.

```suggestion
### Export the token
```

</StepsProvider>

## Solution 4: Authenticate to GitHub Package Registry

> If the previous solutions do not resolve the issue, the failure may be related to GitHub Package Registry authentication rather than your npm registry configuration. Midnight publishes `@midnight-ntwrk/*` packages to `https://npm.pkg.github.com/`, which requires authentication even for public packages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the previous solutions do not resolve the issue, the cause may be GitHub Package Registry authentication rather than an npm registry misconfiguration. Midnight publishes `@midnight-ntwrk/*` packages to `https://npm.pkg.github.com/`, which requires authentication even for public packages.
```

Without a configured token, every install attempt fails with:

> ```

Reviewer: For consistency with the error block earlier in the page (which uses ` ```bash `), consider adding a language tag here. Even for output-only blocks, a tag like ` ```text ` or ` ```bash ` helps screen readers and syntax highlighters.

@midnight-ntwrk/ledger@npm:4.0.0::__archiveUrl=...: Invalid authentication (as an unknown user)
```

> To resolve this, configure `npmAuthToken` in your `.yarnrc.yml` and provide a GitHub personal access token with the `read:packages` scope through the `GITHUB_TOKEN` environment variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To resolve this, configure `npmAuthToken` in your `.yarnrc.yml`. You also need a GitHub personal access token with the `read:packages` scope, provided through the `GITHUB_TOKEN` environment variable.
```

<StepsProvider>

<Step>

### Generate a GitHub personal access token

> Create a fine-grained personal access token at `https://github.com/settings/personal-access-tokens/new` with the `read:packages` scope. A classic PAT with the same scope also works.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a fine-grained personal access token (PAT) at `https://github.com/settings/personal-access-tokens/new` with the `read:packages` scope. A classic PAT with the same scope also works.
```

> For organization-owned packages, your token must also have access to the `midnightntwrk` organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::info[Organization access]
For organization-owned packages, your token must also have access to the `midnightntwrk` organization.
:::
```

</Step>

<Step>

### Update `.yarnrc.yml`

Add the `npmAuthToken` field under the `midnight-ntwrk` scope, pointing at the `GITHUB_TOKEN` environment variable:

```yaml
npmScopes:
  midnight-ntwrk:
    npmAlwaysAuth: true
    npmPublishRegistry: "https://npm.pkg.github.com/"
    npmRegistryServer: "https://npm.pkg.github.com/"
    npmAuthToken: "${GITHUB_TOKEN}"
```

> Yarn interpolates `${GITHUB_TOKEN}` from the environment at install time, so the token never has to live in `.yarnrc.yml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::tip[Token security]
Yarn interpolates `${GITHUB_TOKEN}` from the environment at install time, so the token never lives in `.yarnrc.yml`.
:::
```

</Step>

<Step>

> ### Export the token and reinstall

Reviewer: In Solutions 1-3, the step before "Test installation" only *configures* things, and "Test installation" is the first time `install` actually runs. Here, step 3 both exports the token *and* runs `yarn install`, so step 4 re-runs the same command.

To match the existing pattern, you could separate the concerns:
- **Step 3 ("Export the token")**: just the `export` command plus the inline-env-var alternative
- **Step 4 ("Test installation")**: runs `yarn install` as the actual verification

That way each step does one thing, and the test step is meaningful on its own.

```bash
export GITHUB_TOKEN=<your-github-token>
yarn install
```

If you prefer not to set the environment variable globally, prefix the install command on the same line: `GITHUB_TOKEN=<your-github-token> yarn install`.

</Step>

<Step>

### Test installation

```bash
yarn install
```

> **Verification**: Installation completes without `Invalid authentication` errors and `@midnight-ntwrk/*` packages resolve from `npm.pkg.github.com`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Verification**: Installation completes without `Invalid authentication` errors and `@midnight-ntwrk/*` packages resolve from `npm.pkg.github.com`.
```
